there aren't words to describe what
happened on October 7th other than the
face of evil was revealed for the entire
world to see and we stand as one with
you with Israel the October 7th attack
by Hamas and the start of Israel's most
devastating war on Gaza in history was a
galvanizing moment for Conservative
Christian broadcasters in the United
States the Lord talking to Israel will
keep you from all evil he will keep your
life I want to say to people it's time
for you to get to Israel and when you
get here you are in this place as a
Watchman on the wall there have been
calls for Global prayer Gatherings
fundraising drives to buy bulletproof
vests we heard the need for these
life-saving protective vests the idef
doesn't have enough with the hundreds of
thousands of reservist and thank across
the Conservative Christian landscape the
message from Christian zionists has been
loud and clear this is not just a
suggestion that we should pray for
Israel this is a Biblical mandate that
we should pray for the Peace of
Jerusalem Christian Zionism is a belief
that Israel plays a key prophetic role
in The Return of Jesus so Christian
zionists believe that everything that
happens with regard to the state of
Israel from its founding in 1948
to the war that is occurring right now
in Gaza are fulfillments of Prophecy in
the Bible tonight Christians here in
Israel and in the United States and in
Canada and all over the world are
watching what's happening and asking
critical questions is this horrific war
in Gaza part of end times Bible prophecy
every time since the founding of Israel
when there have been major Wars uh
American evangelicals who are interested
in Prophecy have gotten very excited
about the possibility that this war is
the war that signals the beginning of
the return of Jesus to Earth which they
believe will happen and they believe
Israel and Wars conducted by Israel will
be Central to that every time there's a
major conflict in the Middle East uh the
the prophecy talk really ramps up and I
know everybody's been saying that
forever
but it's kind of looking like you know
Jesus might be coming
the talk of a holy land promised by God
to Jews his chosen people an apocalyptic
War signaling the end times and the
resurrection of Jesus who would save all
Christians sounds to many as Fantastical
and weak grounds on which to base an
understanding of global
geopolitics however this is a
fundamental theological belief of more
than 80 million Americans who call
themselves Evangelical Christians many
of whom firmly support Zionism the
political ideology underpinning the
state of Israel led by charismatic and
deeply political preachers who
understood the power of the pulpit and
transferred it to the airwaves through
radio and TV conservative Christians
have had a significant impact on us
politics for decades their success as
broadcasters meant presidential
candidates from Ronald Reagan to Donald
Trump sought their endorsement not only
it's so good to have you with us and
often sought their policy input two
evangelicals really punch politically
far above their weight so white
evangelicals are far in a way the
biggest supporters of Donald Trump for
example and despite representing a small
proportion of the population they do
turn out to vote so yes they do have a
lot of power they also have a lot of
lobbying
organizations and uh one that's
immediately going to come to mind in
this context would be of course Pastor
John hag's Christians United for Israel
those of you who are watching Across
America and around the world today the
Jewish people are at War for their very
survival John haggy is one of the most
well-known of the prophecy oriented
conservative Evangelical he's been doing
this for many decades he's been very
involved in political organizing for
Israel Israel You Are Not Alone Israel
You're Not Alone Israel you are not
what I noticed about his message when he
was at the pro-israel rally is that he
really downplayed the parts of what he
believes that would be offensive to
American Jews so he doesn't say uh
anything about you know this is the end
times are coming this Jesus is going to
come again Jews have to convert in order
to be saved and he doesn't say anything
like that the notion of Jews needing to
give up their religion having to convert
to Christianity is if they want their
souls saved at the end times doesn't
come up too much in the Evangelical
broadcast since October 7th it almost
doesn't need stating since it's a core
part of the end times narrative those
who believe it have been taught that
non-christians simply won't survive the
other reason it's not said explicitly is
because it's anti-semitic indeed some of
the most prominent chrisan zionists have
at one point or another been caught
saying something anti-semitic and yet
Israeli leaders especially prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu have courted
these preachers and their
congregations Reverend Franklin Graham
the first major Evangelical leader to
visit Israel since the War Began
Franklin Graham he's the head of the
Billy Graham Evangelistic Association
now that is an organization with a lot
of money influence and power and he
heads this organization called
Samaritan's Purse so Graham after the
October 7th attack he indeed met with
Netanyahu so what does Netanyahu get out
of a meeting like that a photo op like
that well it's it's a nod to American
right-wing Christians that he is their
friend right they see him and Franklin
Graham getting along it reinforces this
sort of special relationship the Bible
says that there is a Time For Peace and
a time for war this is a time for war
Netanyahu is definitely speaking to
evangelicals when he quotes the Bible
yahu is undoubtedly aware that for
American Jews this war is becoming
increasingly unpopular and that
evangelicals vastly outnumber Jews in
the United States and exercise a great
deal of control over the Republican
party and so keeping that relationship
going is to netanyahu's Advantage in
maintaining his relationships with
Republicans and the support of America
uh for this war
the sprawling network of Conservative
Christian Media Outlets also play a
vital role in cementing support for
Israel's war there are sporadic
expressions of concern and empathy for
Palestinian lives lost but the focus is
by and large on the need for Jews to
defend their land father God of Abraham
Isaac and Jacob we asked that you
accompany Israel's troops into the
battle what Sharp the impact of the
messaging is that it's not all sermons
and group prayer Christian Evangelical
Outlets present a lot of their output as
though it's news on the Battlefront in
Gaza we're learning that Tuesday was one
of the bloodiest days of the war
religious organizations have had an
impact as journalists for quite some
time because they used to be clunky and
awkward now they are much more
professionall looking and they talk
about all the issues of the world and it
allows people to get most of their news
from these Christian sources and to have
that interpretive frame right there the
packaging is a very black and white good
versus evil kind of framing because in
their view the Jews are God's chosen
people and God gave the land to the Jews
any claim to The Land by
Palestinians is wrong and needs to be
defeated so you Christian zionists
therefore support the occupation support
the annexation of more land yes we want
Hamas to be stop we want it to be
uprooted and and eradicated but if they
won't then we need them removed if they
will leave fine if they will be arrested
fine but they may have to be killed and
so if you knew nothing about that and
Came Upon a sermon or a lecture by a
Christian Zionist you would think that
you were looking at a good versus evil
very black and white situation when in
fact it's much more complicated than
[Music]
that